R E S E A R C H
    from Grolier Electronic Publishing,
         Inc.

Knight

   In medieval Europe the term knight
referred to a mounted warrior of
secondary noble rank.  The medieval
rank probably originated with the
barbarian tribes of northern Europe.
Often the younger son of a hereditary
peer, the knight began his training
as a young boy by entering the service
of an overlord.  At age 15 or 16 he
was raised to the rank of squire and
began his period of trial.  When his
overlord considered him worthy, the
prospective knight recieved his
accolade, traditionally a tap on the
shoulder with a sword, which
proclaimed him a knight.  Once
knighted he was entitled to the
honorific title "Sir" and continued
in the military service of his
overlord.
   As feudalism developed, the rank
of knight became a landholding rank.
The knight held his land by what was
known as military tenure.  That is,
in return for a land grant the knight
was expected to render military
service to his overlord.  Knighthood
also took on a religious significance,
and a vigil before the altar became
part of the military initiation into
knighthood.

Medieval Drama

   The distinguishing characteristics
of medieval drama are its Christian
elements and its didactic purpose.
Vernacular plays typically dramatized
the lives of the saints, stories
from the Bible, or moral allegories.
   The biblical cycle plays, sometimes
called mystery plays, were originally
performed under church auspices.
Although they contained Old Testament
and nativity sequences, the cycles
were primarily devoted to portraying
the life and passion of Christ, his
harrowing of hell, his resurrection
and appearances to his disciples and
the two Marys, and his ascension.

Macbeth, King of Scotland

   The life of Macbeth, king of
Scots, b. c.1005, d. Aug. 15, 1057,
formed the legendary basis of
Shakespeare's tragedy Macbeth.  He
succeeded (c.1031) his father,
Finlay, as moarmaer (provincial
governor) of Moray.  Macbeth probably
had a personal claim to the crown of
Scotland through royal descent, but
he acquired an additional, more
direct, claim by his marriage to
Gruoch, granddaughter of King
Kenneth III (r.997-1005).  Macbeth
killed King Duncan I in battle near
Elgin in 1040 and took the crown.
An attempt to dethrone Macbeth in
favor of Malcolm Canmore, the son of
Duncan, was defeated in 1046.  In
1054, however, Macbeth was forced
to give Malcolm a southern part of
Scotland.  Malcolm defeated and
killed Macbeth at the Battle of
Lumphanan in 1057 and the following
year became king as Malcolm III.
Macbeth was buried at lona as a
legitimate monarch.



Manorialism

   The great majority of the people
lived in the country, where they were
divided into two main classes:  lords
and villagers.  The lords lived in
manor houses, sometimes called
castles, near which stood the crofts
of their villagers.  The villagers,
who might legally be either free or
serf, cultivated the land--whether
their own or their lord's.  The
lord often had rights to services
as well as monetary rents.  The
tenants commonly owed him a
specified number of days of labor
each year.  He collected inheritence
taxes and commanded his villagers'
use of his mill, oven, and winepress;
above all, the  tenants were subject
to jurisdiction of his manorial
court.
   The system of relationships
between a lord and his tenants is
called manorialism.  Because manorial
services were not always reliable,
some lords preferred to hire laborers
from aamong the younger sons of the
villagers, and frequently villagers
were able to commute their personal
services to a monetary payment.
Serfs, who were bound to the land,
might buy manumission, or if they
fled to a town and lived there for a
year and a day, they were free of
all manorial claims.  The example
of the towns encouraged some
villagers to form rural communes and
obtain liberties of self-government
from their lords; after the Black
Death, the scarcity of labor enabled
the villagers to obtain greater
personal and economic freedom.
